README.md, before:

[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Coverage](https://github.com/AceofSpades5757/vii/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AceofSpades5757/vii/actions/workflows/tests.yml)

[![cargo.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/vii)](https://crates.io/crates/vii)
![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/vii?color=purple)

[![rust badge](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Made%20with&message=Rust&style=for-the-badge&logo=rust&labelColor=e82833&color=b11522)](https://www.rust-lang.org/)

Bindings to Vim objects, bindings to Vim _channel commands_, and a way to interact with Vim using Rust.

Using this library, you can wite standard plugins, all in Rust, which get run just like a Vim plugin would typically run.

# Installation

Add this line to your dependencies section of your `Cargo.toml` file.

`vii = "0.0"`

_Current interface is highly unstable._

# Usage

_If possible, use the examples directly from the documentation as they are more clear and tested._

## Plugin

- _Note: Server plugins, or persistent plugins are not yet implemented._
- _Note: FiletypePlugin, for a Vim filetype plugin, is not yet implemented._

Creating a Vim plugin using Rust. Can be installed and run using the Vim plugin `rust-plug`.

Acts _almost_ just like a Vim plugin would. It runs on startup, running it's code. Exceptions include adding `pythonx` code, the `autoload` directory, but it can still create functions, commands, global variables, and read from Vim itself.

- Uses `PluginConfig` struct to add configuration support.
- Uses `Plugin` trait to create a plugin.
  - `get_config` - Get the configuration struct.
  - `plugin` - The plugin, the important information.

Here's an example, taken from [rust-plug proof of concept](https://github.com/AceofSpades5757/rust-plug-poc).

```toml
# Cargo.toml
[package]
name = "rust-plug-poc"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

# See more keys and their definitions at https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html

[dependencies]
vii = "0.0"
```

```rust
// src/main.rs
use std::env;
use std::net::TcpStream;

use vii::plugin::Plugin;
use vii::plugin::PluginConfig;

struct MyPlugin{
    ip: String,
    port: String,
}

/// Make your struct, MyPlugin, into a Plugin ready for Vim.
impl Plugin for MyPlugin {
    fn get_config(&self) -> PluginConfig {
        PluginConfig::new("127.0.0.1".to_string(), "8765".to_string())
    }
    fn plugin(&mut self, _stream: &mut TcpStream) -> Result<(), String> {
        Ok(())
    }
}

fn main() {

  // Environment Variable, to communicate with rust-plug
  let port = env::var("VII_PLUGIN_PORT").unwrap();
  let mut plugin = MyPlugin {
    ip: "127.0.0.1".to_string(),
    port,
  };

  // Run your plugin.
  //
  // Here you can run your plugin as many times as you'd like, create multiple plugins, etc.
  plugin.run();
}
```

## Data Types

Working with Vim data types.

_See documentation for supported data types._

```rust
use vii::DataType;

// Using a Vim data type
let vim_float = DataType::Float(3.14);
// Serializing for transmission to Vim
let serialized_float = vim_float.to_string();  // "3.14"

let vim_string = DataType::String("Hello World!".to_string());
let serialized_string = vim_string.to_string();  // "\"Hello World!\""
```

## Vim Channels

Working with Vim channels (see `:help channel.txt` in Vim).

_Note: This is a low-level API. The eventual, high-level API should look like `let expr = Expr::from("line('$')");`._

```rust
use vii::channel::{
    ChannelCommand,
    Call,
    Expression,
};

// Number of Lines in Current Buffer
// ["expr","line('$')"]
let expression = ChannelCommand::Expr(
    Expression {
        expression: "line('$')".to_string(),
    },
    None,
);

// Number of Lines in Current Buffer
// ["call", "line", ["$"]]
let call = ChannelCommand::Call(
    Call {
        function: "line".to_string(),
        args: vec![DataType::String("$")],
    },
    None,
);


println!("{}", expression.to_string());
// ["expr","line('$')"]
println!("{}", call.to_string());
// ["call", "line", ["$"]]
```

# Contributing

If there are any features you would like added, found any potential bugs, or have any questions, then feel free to create an issue.

## Testing

`cargo test`

Unittests are in the same file, next to the units they are testing (bottom). Integration tests are in `/tests/`.

# License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0
  ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license
  ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

## Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Add features and textprops to README

README.md, after:

[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Coverage](https://github.com/AceofSpades5757/vii/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AceofSpades5757/vii/actions/workflows/tests.yml)

[![cargo.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/vii)](https://crates.io/crates/vii)
![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/vii?color=purple)

[![rust badge](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Made%20with&message=Rust&style=for-the-badge&logo=rust&labelColor=e82833&color=b11522)](https://www.rust-lang.org/)

Bindings to Vim objects, bindings to Vim _channel commands_, and a way to interact with Vim using Rust.

Using this library, you can wite standard plugins, all in Rust, which get run just like a Vim plugin would typically run.

# Installation

Add this line to your dependencies section of your `Cargo.toml` file.

`vii = "0.0"`

_Current interface is highly unstable._

## Features

Default comes with a lot of useful features, but there are a lot of features available, to increase the quality of your program.

# Usage

_If possible, use the examples directly from the documentation as they are more clear and tested._

## Plugin

- _Note: Server plugins, or persistent plugins are not yet implemented._
- _Note: FiletypePlugin, for a Vim filetype plugin, is not yet implemented._

Creating a Vim plugin using Rust. Can be installed and run using the Vim plugin `rust-plug`.

Acts _almost_ just like a Vim plugin would. It runs on startup, running it's code. Exceptions include adding `pythonx` code, the `autoload` directory, but it can still create functions, commands, global variables, and read from Vim itself.

- Uses `PluginConfig` struct to add configuration support.
- Uses `Plugin` trait to create a plugin.
  - `get_config` - Get the configuration struct.
  - `plugin` - The plugin, the important information.

Here's an example, taken from [rust-plug proof of concept](https://github.com/AceofSpades5757/rust-plug-poc).

```toml
# Cargo.toml
[package]
name = "rust-plug-poc"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

# See more keys and their definitions at https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html

[dependencies]
vii = "0.0"
```

```rust
// src/main.rs
use std::env;
use std::net::TcpStream;

use vii::plugin::Plugin;
use vii::plugin::PluginConfig;

struct MyPlugin{
    ip: String,
    port: String,
}

/// Make your struct, MyPlugin, into a Plugin ready for Vim.
impl Plugin for MyPlugin {
    fn get_config(&self) -> PluginConfig {
        PluginConfig::new("127.0.0.1".to_string(), "8765".to_string())
    }
    fn plugin(&mut self, _stream: &mut TcpStream) -> Result<(), String> {
        Ok(())
    }
}

fn main() {

  // Environment Variable, to communicate with rust-plug
  let port = env::var("VII_PLUGIN_PORT").unwrap();
  let mut plugin = MyPlugin {
    ip: "127.0.0.1".to_string(),
    port,
  };

  // Run your plugin.
  //
  // Here you can run your plugin as many times as you'd like, create multiple plugins, etc.
  plugin.run();
}
```

## Data Types

Working with Vim data types.

_See documentation for supported data types._

```rust
use vii::DataType;

// Using a Vim data type
let vim_float = DataType::Float(3.14);
// Serializing for transmission to Vim
let serialized_float = vim_float.to_string();  // "3.14"

let vim_string = DataType::String("Hello World!".to_string());
let serialized_string = vim_string.to_string();  // "\"Hello World!\""
```

## Text Properties

Working with Vim text properties (see `:help textprop.txt` in Vim).

_Note: This is a low-level API._

```rust
use vii::textprops::{
    TextProperties,
    PropertyTypes,
    prop_type_add,
};
```

## Channels

Working with Vim channels (see `:help channel.txt` in Vim).

_Note: This is a low-level API. The eventual, high-level API should look like `let expr = Expr::from("line('$')");`._

```rust
use vii::channel::{
    ChannelCommand,
    Call,
    Expression,
};

// Number of Lines in Current Buffer
// ["expr","line('$')"]
let expression = ChannelCommand::Expr(
    Expression {
        expression: "line('$')".to_string(),
    },
    None,
);

// Number of Lines in Current Buffer
// ["call", "line", ["$"]]
let call = ChannelCommand::Call(
    Call {
        function: "line".to_string(),
        args: vec![DataType::String("$")],
    },
    None,
);


println!("{}", expression.to_string());
// ["expr","line('$')"]
println!("{}", call.to_string());
// ["call", "line", ["$"]]
```

# Contributing

If there are any features you would like added, found any potential bugs, or have any questions, then feel free to create an issue.

## Testing

`cargo test`

Unittests are in the same file, next to the units they are testing (bottom). Integration tests are in `/tests/`.

# License

Licensed under either of

- Apache License, Version 2.0
  ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- MIT license
  ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

## Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
